# i _ a m _ i n _ c r i s i s

AV Portfolio Major Project Commentary – Charles Vaughan <br /> <br />

‘i am in crisis’ is a short 3 minute static AV piece created with in HTML/Javascript using the Maxim and P5.js libraries. It is an attempt to document the stress and anxiety created through the dealdines for projects such as this using simplistic synthesis and geometric manipulation. Stylistically, inspiration is drawn from works such as Ryoji Ikeda’s ‘test pattern’ work as well as Ouch’s ‘AVA’ dome installation. The piece uses simplistic shapes, lines and circles drawn erratically with modulations matched to the audio to create both overwhelming and subtle imagery. The audio is produced from a range of synthesis and FX techniques, which were originally designed on the Korg Minilogue before attempted re-creation, and further experimentation, with the Maxim audio library. The visuals are created using the P5.js library and use the in-built shape options with variables and modulated fed in from the Maxim code, which are triggered by different boolean states controlled by a master clock and counter. <br />
The piece creates striking contrasts between calm and chaos, such as I find the work load and stress levels from day to day within the higher educational environment. Often the piece feels erratic and overwhelming, with strobing used to create a blinding effect from the laptop screen, an ironic gesture to the effect of prolonged laptop work on my own eyes. The piece ends with a chaotic section randomly selecting different AV states to appear faster and faster, as an attempt to break the program and flaw the workload before total silence and end, directly relating to my own experiences of the last 24 hours before a deadline. The title, although will be mainly interpreted as a reference to my own struggle, also references the potential strife and strain we force our laptops through on projects like this, endlessly compiling and debugging, each load becoming more complex and taxing than the last, with no way of our laptop’s being able to express this potential strife.
<br /> <br />
Project created for Advanced AV Portfolio

